# Managing third party dependencies

The Go community decided that the best way to manage dependencies was by _vendoring_ them.

To vendor a dependency means that the code of that package we depend on is copied into our
workspace and stored as part of our project.

This has some advantages such as the fact that if a dependency disappears from their original
repo our code still compiles and it's easier to have actually repeatable builds.
But there are some disadvantages too, mainly based on the fact that updating to a new version
requires more than just modifying a number in a configuration file.

The Go community has created many of these tools over time, and even though they're worth
reading about we will not cover them during this workshop. You can see a list with most
of them in the [Go wiki](https://github.com/golang/go/wiki/PackageManagementTools).

I also recommend reading [The Saga of Go Dependency Management](https://blog.gopheracademy.com/advent-2016/saga-go-dependency-management/)
for a better understanding of the current state.

The tool that we will use for this workshop is the newest one: [dep](https://github.com/golang/dep).
This tool is the result of months of work by the [Dependency Management Working Group](https://groups.google.com/forum/#!forum/go-package-management).

## Using `dep`

The `dep` tool will manage dependencies in the `vendor` directory.
It has a very small number of features by design, keeping it as simple as possible to enable more.

To install `dep` simple run:

```bash
$ go get -u github.com/golang/dep/cmd/dep
```

You can now run `dep` from inside a package in your `GOPATH` to vendor all its dependencies by running:

```bash
$ dep init
$ dep ensure -update
```

To update a dependency to a new version, you might run

```bash
$ dep ensure github.com/pkg/errors@^0.8.0
```

### Exercise: managing dependencies

Install `dep` and run `dep init` from [hello-vendor](hello-vendor).

Running this will create:

- `Gopkg.toml`: a file where you can add restrictions and extra information about your package.
- `vendor`: containing all of the dependencies for `hello-vendor`.
- `Gopkg.lock`: an autogenerated file keeping track of the contents of `vendor`.

You should never edit `vendor` or `Gopkg.lock` directly, instead you should edit `Gopkg.toml`
and use the `dep` binary.

Let's ensure that we are using the version 1.0.0 of `logrus` in our `vendor` directory. Simply run:

```bash
$ dep ensure github.com/Sirupsen/logrus@1.0.0
```

Did you see any changes in any of the files mentioned above? Try using a different version of `logrus` from
[this list](https://github.com/sirupsen/logrus/releases).

## Congratulations!

You know how to vendor the dependencies in a project and how to update to a newer version whenever that's
needed!

This is the end of the chapter on workspace management, next we'll learn about how to actually write code.
Continue with [next chapter](../2-writing/1-editors-and-plugins.md).